# Student Report Format

The student report can be generated by running [report #990990](https://genesis.monroe.k12.nj.us/genesis/sis/view?module=gradebook&category=reports&tab1=scheduleReport&reportcode=990990&action=form&scheduleReport=yes) in [Genesis](http://genesis.monroe.k12.nj.us). This report is designed to be loaded into a JS object. The column titles are camel case and short, lending themselves to accessed via dot notation. It also does not contain any derived information as that is handled by functions in the alwaysRostering framework.

Currently the following columns are generated:

* id - unique for each student, used as our primary key whenever possible
* schoolCode
  * AES - Applegarth Elementary School
  * AMS - Monroe Township Middle School
  * BES - Brookside Elementary School
  * INACT - Inactive
  * MLS - Mill Lake Elementary School
  * MTHS - Monroe Township High School
  * OOD - Out of District
  * OTS - Oak Tree Elementary School
  * WES - Woodland Elementary School
* firstName
* lastName
* grade - These grades have the leading zero removed
* networkID - Typically the first digit of the first name and seven digits of the last name. May have a digit added to make it unique.
* password - Referred to by the elementary students as their lunch code. Referred to by the high school students as their email login or webfilter password.
* genderCode - M or F
* dob - Date of Birth (M/D/YYYY)
* homeroomTeacher - NOT from the schedule, but the homeroom teacher as set in Student Data.
